and this time we'll be talking about
reinforcement learning for natural
language processing as usual the first
part is kind of a recap of the reading
material with a couple extra comments
and the second part is covering stuff
that wasn't covered in the reading
material um so what is reinforcement
learning it's there's a number of ways
you can define it but probably one easy
definition is that we have an
environment X this was also called the
state in the in the leading material we
have the ability to make actions a so
that in the reading material X was the
image a was up or down and we get the
reward R which is whether we win the
game or not plus or minus yeah but you
can think of any number of things like
this so if you're playing go obviously
your your reward is or your environment
is a go board a is where you place a
stone on the go board and our is whether
you win the game or not if you are let's
see if you're walking down the hallway
your reward your environment is the
hallway around you your reward is
whether you get to where you want to be
or not or whether you trip or or
whatever trip and embarrass yourself so
basically a lot of things we do in real
life can be formulated like this um in
NLP people use reinforcement learning
for a number of reasons um and not all
of them are the traditional
reinforcement learning sense not all of
them are like we have an environment and
we take some actions and we get a reward
they're formulated that way but that's
not actually what they're trying to do
um but one example that is a typical
reinforcement learning scenario is where
we're doing a dialogue we're talking
along and having a dialogue and then at
the end of the dialogue maybe we get a
we get a task completion reward so if we
have an automat
a trip booking system if we go through
and the person gives us their credit
card number and pays us to buy a book a
ticket and we earned some money then
that's good we got a monetary reward if
not then then we've failed and wasted
some time and made a customer angry or
something like that um another example
is where we have some sort of latent
variables which is what we talked about
last time
so latent variables require us to make
require us to make decisions that are
that we can't back drop through
basically so an example would be if we
you know based on our decisions we make
a different tree structure for a
particular sentence and based on that
our network structure changes so we
can't back prop through it so that
that's another place where neural
networks have been used or reinforcement
learning has been used in NLP to kind of
solve these problems in this case it's
not the only way you can solve these
problems you can also solve it in other
in other ways also another example where
this has been used is we have a sequence
level error function such as blue scores
so for example in machine translation we
want to do it create a translation that
gives us the best blue score but blue
score is not differentiable so we need a
way to optimize things in the
appropriate way here for this one we
could do maximum likelihood training we
actually could do supervised training
but we decide not to do supervised
training for various reasons so we could
just keep in mind the very top one is
the one where we kind of need
reinforcement learning we have no other
choice and as we go farther down we have
a bunch of other options for for how to
do learning okay
so this is a review of the reading
material with a few extra comments in it
but first if you talk about supervised
learning we are given the correct
decisions so basically are what we want
to do is we want to maximize the
probability of making these correct
decisions so X is our input Y is our
output and we're given Y so we know we
want to maximize the probability one
thing we should note is that in the
context of reinforcement learning
there's a term called
imitation learning where imitation
learning is basically we're given a
teacher and the teacher can tell us what
we need to be doing and we want to
imitate what the teacher tells us so we
have a kind of optimal optimal policy
that we want to follow and supervised
learning can kind of be viewed as a type
of imitation learning where we want to
imitate the correct answer so there are
other methods for imitation learning and
things like scheduled sampling or dagger
or other other methods that aren't
exactly this also are often called the
imitation learning but it's a good term
to go so now I'm going to talk about
another thing that is will bring us half
of the way to reinforcement learning
that we're doing which is self training
so self training basically the idea is
that we sample or calculate the max of
our current model so we take our current
probability distribution P of Y given X
and we randomly get a sample from that
or we take the arguments of this and get
the best of those yeah or get the best Y
and then we use this sample or samples
to maximize the likelihood so the self
training objective basically looks like
this it's exactly the same as the
is the regular maximum-likelihood
training except now we're using the
arguments or we're using a randomly
obtained sample usually we use the
arguments here the the one on the right
is kind of the typical way of roads so
there's no correct one of the
interesting things here is there's no
correct answer needed all we need is a
model that can give us a guess of P of P
of Y given X and we can train directly
on that so nowhere in this equation do
we use the the reference but this is
sound like a good idea basically what
we're doing is we're creating an answer
based on our model and then we're
training to improve like increase its
probability okay who says yes who says
no okay almost everyone says no actually
it's not that bad an idea it's not it's
not complete garbage the reason why it's
not a that bad of an idea is sometimes
our model is actually relatively
accurate and when our model is
relatively accurate the Ardex will also
be relatively accurate and we can learn
we can learn things from basically
looking at this arguments and learning
consistencies when from places where the
model gets it right even if it gets it
wrong occasionally so self training has
been shown to improve the accuracy of
parsing and and other applications but
in general you know training on bad
output is not the best idea there are
better things that we can do umm one
successful alternative of this is called
ko training which was kind of pioneered
by Tom Mitchell here and and the idea
here is that we have multiple models and
we generate the best one for multiple
models and then only do this additional
the ones where both of the models
degrees so this is like a method for
that combines self training with
ensemble in a non samba love models and
where they agree is where we're likely
to be correct and this allows you to
improve over either of the two models
but this is kind of us inside this
nobody calls something like this
reinforcement learning usually so we can
we can do search over structured things
we we talked about that a little bit you
can do greedy search you can do beam
search any sort of search suspect in
reinforcement learning you generally
have a sequence of multiple accidents
and if you only have a single action
then you wouldn't really it wouldn't
really a reinforcement learning so you
need to have multiple actions and for
self training that's not necessarily the
case in order to call it reinforcement
learning like what are the definitions
of reinforcement learning is that you
have a delayed reward that is not
necessarily given to you immediately
um but anyway the reason why I
introduced this is it gives a really
good transition into the next thing
which is policy gradient so policy
gradient is exactly the same as self
training with their the form of the
equation is exactly the same as self
training with sampling except that we
additionally add a reward term we
additionally scale this this loss by a
reward term so the only thing here is
that we inserted that our Y hat y
where Y is the correct answer or Y
actually that are I probably shouldn't
put that Y in that Y in there it should
be just our Y hat so whatever whatever
reward we get for taking the sequence of
actions and that sorry that should
actually not be our self that should be
L reinforced so the result here is that
self training you know it will always
give you the same you'll always be
training the same amount towards each
towards each sampled output but now
instead of training the same amount for
each sample doubt but we train more for
outputs where we get a high reward and
less for outputs where we get a low
reward or if we get a negative reward
will actually work to reduce the
probability of that output so actually
this could be a two-part quiz so under
what condition is this equal to maximum
likelihood estimation is the first part
of the quiz and under what condition is
this equal to self training is the
second part of this so under what
condition is this equal to maximum
likelihood estimation
the word the reward is is a constant
that's actually self-training yeah so
self-training if the reward is a
constant 1 then this is self-training
yes exactly so when your reward is equal
to so the so basically you can see this
maximum likelihood estimation is a type
of this reward but the reason why this
becomes interesting is because actually
we have lots of other different rewards
that are not just the zero one loss and
also maximum likelihood estimation
assumes that we know the correct answer
while this doesn't have to assume we
know the correct answer we can get a
reward that doesn't explicitly give us
information about the correct answer any
questions about that everybody you
following ok so then we move to the
problem of credit assignment so credit
assignment is the big difficulty in in
reinforcement learning in fact it's
basically the only difficulty in
reinforcement learning which is that we
don't know which action led to our
reward we don't know what thing we did
to basically get get this reward so the
best scenario here is the best scenario
would be that we get in immediate
rewards so we get a reward of 1 every
time because we took the action yeah
number 2 the action at number 4 was bad
so it were do
star reward action number five was good
invention number six was the best of all
of them and if we know this then
basically we can raise the probability
of the good actions and lower the
probability of the directions directly
it would be a type of reinforcement
learning but unfortunately what we get
is something like this
so we get a reward at the very end of
our we get the reward at the very end of
our rollout or our sequence of actions
so then we basically have to guess which
of these actions here actually resulted
in investigating this plus three there's
other cases that I didn't put on the
slide but um sometimes in the okay sorry
so I was a little bit my description of
the best scenario was actually a little
bit so there's there's three situations
one situation is where you get somebody
to explicitly tell you whether this
action was good or bad that's supervised
learning right the second one is where
you get a reward every once in a while
at every action but you don't but you
don't necessarily know whether the
reward that you got it a - was because
of a - or because you did a 1 and then a
2 so the there's a high chance that a 2
was a good action but for example if
there's high over here and I like high
then a 1 is walk over here if I didn't
walk over there I wouldn't have any able
to eat the pie so it's basically like
that and if that's the case then we have
a better idea than the worst case
scenario because we get actions period
we get rewards periodically but we don't
have a perfect idea um it's very common
to assign decaying rewards for future
events
so if we have a
that happened far in the future we don't
think it was a good idea that we did an
action three years ago so like if I walk
over here and eat some pie the pie
action is probably good me tying my
shoes three years ago was probably not
related to me eating the pie today so we
have this decaying this decaying reward
where we can discount the reward that we
get from future um so that's kind of the
overview of of reinforcement learning
according to the reading the problem is
that reinforcement learning especially
reinforcement learning in NLP like
scenarios is really really hard and it's
very hard to get it to work properly so
probably as you saw from the reading in
my explanation now policy gradient is
extremely simple it's an extremely
simple algorithm and it's very easy to
use but it doesn't work out of the box
most of the time so the biggest thing is
how do you actually get it to work for
your problems um so what are the
problems with reinforcement learning um
so I've talked before about methods that
sample outputs and optimize towards the
sampled outputs and the problem with
these is they tend to be very unstable
they tend to because they're not
considering the whole hypothesis space
they tend to fluctuate a lot based on
the samples you get um and they are
particularly unstable when using a
bigger output space so like all of the
words in a vocabulary and this means
that reinforcement learning is not a
great idea for something like machine
translation where you need to choose
from 20,000 words every time it's a
better idea for something where you have
to make a binary decision multiple times
because a binary decision you can
doesn't have a whole lot
different accommodations that you need
to pick from so it will be much it will
be much more stable so basically the
larger number of decisions you have the
less a good idea using reinforcement
learning as usual um so the first thing
that is very common to do to stabilize
reinforcement learning is adding
something called a baseline the baseline
has a very simple intuitive explanation
so the basic idea is that we have
expectations about how our what reward
we're going to get for a particular
sentence and we have we have two
sentences that we want our machine
translation system to translate and it
says the first one is this is an easy
sentence or our part of speech tagger or
whatever the first one is this is an
easy sentence and the second sentence is
buffalo Buffalo buffalo does anyone know
about buffalo buffalo buffalo have you
heard this before so let me see if I can
get the number correct
so Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo
Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo is a
valid English sentence because Buffalo
could be an adjective it can also be a
verb or it can also be a noun it can
also be the name of a city in New York
so Buffalo from the city of New York
that Buffalo from the city of New York
buffalo Buffalo buffalo from the city of
New York is it's the interpretation of
that sentence but probably our machine
translation system is not going to get
that correct so basically we let's say
we get a reward of 0.8 for the first
sentence and 0.3 for the second sentence
the I the idea of a baseline is
basically it's our expectations for how
well we're going to do on the sentence
so the
just an easy sentence is an easy
sentence so we should have been able to
translate it very well maybe and get a
blue score of zero point 95 so we expect
that we would do very well on this first
sentence
well buffalo Buffalo buffalo this is a
very difficult sentence that we don't
know what to do with so we expect that
we're going to get a very low a blue
score of 0.1 so in this case our reward
for the first sentence is actually
higher than a reward for the second
sentence but given that we weren't
expecting to do well on the second
sentence but we were expecting to do
well in the first sentence actually our
translation under exceeded or
underperformed expectations on the first
one in overperformed expectations on the
second one so we would like to give a
bonus to the second translation and a
penalty done for us and what we do is
instead of waiting our likelihood by the
actual reward we wait our likelihood by
baseline minus 4 so this is our this is
our reinforced loss with the baseline it
just looks like this the um you can also
explain this from the point of view of
from like a mathematical point of view
basically the motivation for this is its
reducing the variance of this reward and
if you have a higher variance of the
reward it leads for higher variance to
your estimator overall but having this
baseline helps reduce that so that's
that's um one very important thing is
that you should not be doing back prop
through this baseline this baseline kind
of needs to be independent or not
entirely independent but it needs to not
be updating the parameters of your model
because if it's updating the parameters
of your of the other part of your model
it leads to dependencies that don't then
cause it to not optimize yeah
be okay so baseline um normally means
the method that you're comparing your
method against okay I won't try to be
but here so our baseline is just
predicting basically what the baseline
does is it predicts the reward and it
predicts how well we're going to do on
this sentence then we actually try to do
things and then we get a reward and the
things that we actually tried to do are
better than we expected better than the
baseline we give the prize it's not it's
not tuned on the validation set it's
tuned during training actually the way
you the way you train the baseline I
think I mentioned this yeah I still have
a little bit more on baselines and then
maybe you can get back to that later so
um so how do we calculate the baseline
so basically the choice of a baseline is
arbitrary it doesn't you could set your
baseline to zero and then just multiply
by the reward and that would still be
perfectly fine as your as your training
algorithm
um one common way to to train the
baseline is to predict the final reward
using sorry linear regression and
missing the regression there from the
current state so basically the idea is
if you have a decoder in neural machine
translation or whatever that will be
doing something to the end of the action
sequence based on that decoder state you
predict how well you're going to the
reward that you're going to get at the
end sentence and this is trained during
using linear regression during the
of training so it basically knows a
little bit about what your model is
currently thinking and is able to use
that to predict how well it's going to
do on the rest of the sentence you can
predict the word have a sentence level
or a decoder state level I've seen both
of these used in a number of a number of
papers another another method that I
just heard about very recently but has
been around since twenty seven years ago
um is a is using the mean of the rewards
in the batch of the baseline or using
the mean of the rewards of the batch and
then normalizing by the variance so you
get a you basically get something where
sentences where you do better than
average for the batch you improve
sentences where you do worse than
average for the batch you decrease so
this is this one's kind of nice in that
it's not parameterised you just need to
calculate this directly from your
rewards well this is the baseline so
this would mean that your that would
mean that your baseline value is
actually equal to the mean for the batch
but so you predicted the reward you
don't actually calculate the reward so
basically you have your hidden state at
time step key and then you have you have
a linear regression model which is just
like W plus in then this tries to
predict your reward yes and it's um you
train the baseline model and you
actually train this with a linear
regression plus where R is your actual
reward that you got for that sentence so
every time you do an update of the model
parameters using the reinforced loss or
the policy gradient loss you also
I think what you're describing is
actually almost exactly what they do
when they apply reinforcement learning
to machine translations so yeah I think
that's basically that is reinforcement
learning honestly so the question was
this a second option better than the
first one
honestly I do not I have not done
extensive enough experiments with both
to tell you the answer what I can tell
you is that the first one if the
baseline gets to be very inaccurate it
can make your model training unstable
especially if you have something like a
big reward or a reward that fluctuates a
whole lot this would have the advantage
of not having that problem this one the
second one on the other hand what if you
have really long sentences and really
short sentences in a batch and really
long sentences tend to have a bad loss
in really short sentences have tend to
have a good loss that would mean you
would be giving a bonus to all of your
really short sentences and giving a
penalty to all your really long
sentences so that also seems like a bad
idea right so I think you need to be
careful about using the second one and
make sure that for all your examples the
expectation of the loss should be
approximately okay okay
so self-critical semester okay well so
apparently there's another another paper
self critical sentence yeah well many of
the good ideas in neural networks
happened in the 1990s and we're just
rediscovering them now so I think the
the intro to the to the reading
materials today was actually very nice
and that's saying there's four things
that are making neural networks better
and most of them are computation power
and data
it's an it's an exaggeration but there
are very good ideas from okay I'll move
on to the next one so then another way
to to simply stabilize your training is
just by increasing your batch size so
the the reason why this is useful is
compared to make maximum likelihood
estimation each sample in in reinforced
or any of the other methods like it is
going to have very high variance so what
we could do is basically we can sample
many different examples before
performing a parameter update and we can
increase the number of examples done
before doing an update and this will
help us stabilize another another method
that can be kind of useful this is more
an efficiency trick than anything else
but you can save the actions that you've
done previously and then reuse them when
you update parameters this is
particularly useful when doing steps
through your reinforcement learning
function is very expensive so if you
need to do search during your
reinforcement learning or or whatever
else so this is called experience replay
this was coincidentally used in alphago
which I didn't know they would be coming
out with the new paper when I made these
slides a couple days ago this is a kind
of this can be very useful as well oh
and in the reading materials he was
talking about doing I guess 10 thousand
games before doing an update he didn't
really explain why he did that but the
reason why is because by doing that you
can make training horse
so the way the way you would want to do
that is you'd want to re do um you'd
want to do mini batches over and over
and over again and accumulate the
gradients before you do an update so for
example in dinette you can do that just
by is divisible by 500 so if it's not
equal to 500 you just accumulate the
gradients and if you on the 500th one
you up you actually do it updates yeah
yeah
you saved like the past fifty thousand
iterations and then you like randomly
sample like thirty two of them every
train steps and that does tend to eat
ensure you keep a really quick quickly
it's so different from experience replay
or as well so like you I randomly
simpleton like the last like fifty
thousand tractions right perfectly
sample a couple of them I'm not sure I
think I think that might be the same
thing as experience replay but I guess
it's called replay so there's another
really interesting thing related to this
by John Langford oh one thing I should
mention is John John Lankford is giving
a talk here very soon and if you're
interested in reinforcement learning you
can go talk to him and he's the like one
of the people who kind of invented a lot
of the stuff here he knows much more
about it than I do who so his talk
should be very good
contextual bandits and lots of other
stuff but he hang on one second and I'll
get to you um but he has another very
interesting thing where basically you
can take it's called multi world testing
I believe where you can basically take
things that you sampled from a different
policy than your current policy but you
could still use them to update your your
system and that's really useful if for
example you have an agent that's working
in the wild doing something in the wild
and then you want to go back and use the
data you accumulated to optimize your
your current learner after you've come
up with a new and better model that will
be particularly relevant to people who
are doing dialogue for example and we're
doing the Alexa price challenge or
whatever you've accumulated a whole
bunch of data from your like surprise
bot and you want to go back and use it
to train your nice reinforcement
learning model so that would be a one
thing to look at for people um sorry oh
that's a problem
what what what day is it
okay um let me let me take a poll about
about what to do about that because I
think that would be very useful it's
next Tuesday
okay um okay I think that would be very
useful
so I'll consider what to do there if
people want to go maybe y'all let people
be excused for that and make up the quiz
later or something like that um okay so
let me let me move on to the to the next
thing so warm to start this is something
that's really useful for reinforcement
learning in NLP it's super simple you
just start training with maximum
likelihood then switch over to reinforce
that being said this only works in
scenario
where you can use maximum likelihood
estimation in the first place so I
listed at the very beginning of the
slides three scenarios where we use
reinforcement learning that will only
work in the third scenario where we
actually know the correct answer but we
want to use reinforcement learning to
optimize a different evaluation measure
it won't work where we're inducing
weight and structure or where we don't
know the correct actions so an example
of this is mixer by Ron's alto at all
where basically they they gradually
transition from Emily to the
reinforcement learning objectives and
then they randomly choose which one that
they want to use and this is actually
implemented in the demo code so I think
Dan will then we'll talk about that in a
second before we do that I just want to
talk about this
so reinforcement learning is really
really popular now or it has been very
popular for the past year or so but I
think one of the lessons that I want
people to not forget is applying
reinforcement learning to NLP is very
very difficult to stabilize it compared
to like maximum likelihood objectives
but that's not to say that it's not
worth doing um if you're in a setting
where the correct actions are not given
and the structure of the computation
depends on the choices that you make or
you're working in a in a situation where
you genuinely get a reward at the end
yes you should use reinforcement
learning you have no other you basically
have no other choice optimize things
here if you're in a setting where the
correct actions are not given but the
computation structure the structure
doesn't change so an example of this
would be machine translation or no it
wouldn't be machine translation an
example of this would be like an RNN
based model where you don't know the
correct actions but you just run an RNN
regardless for ten steps
and and get a result if that's the case
you can also use stuff like
differentiable approximations the Gumbel
softmax this might be more stable than
than this and there have been very good
results about applying these kind of
differentiable approximations to things
like machine translation problems
optimizing for blue or machine
translation problems with and for serial
networks which I'll talk about next
um if you can train using MLE but want
to use a non-compete composable loss
function um you can use warm start
methods to do a more stable start and
then there are many other methods that
you could use also so you could use mix
margin or minimum risk training methods
so you should consider those methods as
well although these methods also share
some of the instability of reinforcement
learning based methods ok so are there
any other questions this if not will
have a short run through of this idea um
the this is based on the you can come on
this is based on the biology um Tiger
that we did before that we used as an
example of lots of different kind of
training algorithms so this is an
example of incorporating incorporating
that so here we're using mixer so mixer
when you start training you first start
with just normal Emily you get the model
of kind of trained and then on a
schedule you start um but save a
sentence of ten words you first trained
the first eight words using that well
the last function in the last two words
using reinforce and then you do that for
a while then you get under the first six
words the last four words and you do
that until everything's trying to using
reinforce well so first of all we need a
few more parameters these are the
parameters for calculating the best
here we're just doing a simple affine
transformation of the hidden layer um to
estimate based on rewards so for the
reinforced loss the beginning is the
same as it was before where you
transduce the sentence with your by lsdm
you get the squares um you calculate the
losses and then you calculate the
probability is by clicking go i guess-
big logs ah facts um miss you gives you
the probabilities then for each of the
probabilities you randomly sample from
that based off the probability is simple
in action or I guess in this case it's
you know attack um then you calculate
the number of correct which gives you
your accuracy
so here the accuracy is the reward we're
trying to directly train against the
accuracy um you then calculate the
baseline by going against with this
mission there so we have both the
baseline and the real words calculated
so we need to do this multiplication so
we're doing this in two steps first
we're just taking the subtracting the
baseline from their word
we need this know back prop here because
we're not back popping through the
baseline here because if we did that
would update the words and create this
weird secure dependency which will mess
up the training um you also get the
baseline scores which is how are
actually training the baseline so this
is just a simple
I guess these squares fit between the
actual reward and the predicted reward
for the baseline
um you then multiply them out which is
and append them to the end of the
sentence based off of the current mixer
setup so if we go down to training
we run this the number of times for
cross entropy plus the number of times
for throw mixed cross entropy and
reinforce then for all the cost of
entropy ones we just do the normal cost
entropy training then for mixer we
calculate the Delta and then run
reinforce based off of that any
questions so yeah that's basically the
this you can see the this is like the
full the full implementation of all the
things that you would want to implement
to do mixer so this is actually a pretty
faithful reimplementation I in many
cases you'll only want to do some of
these things like it's very common to
not do the mixer style gradually facing
in things if you're not doing something
very difficult like machine translations
so you might not need all of this but
even if you do all of this stuff it's
only you know several extra lines of
code you can see so I will next go out
the value-based reinforcement learning
so value-based reinforcement learning is
a different paradigm in reinforcement
learning so policy-based basically what
we're trying to do is we're trying to
learn a good policy a probabilistic
policy that maximizes the expectation of
the reward while value based learning is
trying to trying to guess the value of
doing a prediction particular action so
to kind of give an example if we think
of an extremely simple problem where we
have a B we have the action a B and we
can choose each of these two actions
twice and then at the end a B gives us a
reward of
one a a gives us a reward of 0.2 ba
gives us a reward of 0.5 and this gives
us a reward of 0.7 or something like
that um what policy based reinforcement
learning is trying to do is it's trying
to choose a probability here and based
on this probability it's trying to
choose the probability that will
maximize the expected reward after we go
all the way to the end of the sequence
on the other hand what value-based
reinforcement learning is trying to do
is it's basically trying to look into
the future and say given our current
policy if I take this action now what is
the final reward that I'm going to get
so if we followed the current policy the
best final reward that we can get is one
here and then if we follow this policy
the best final reward we can give or
let's say we have a policy that's
perfect at picking the good one
for the last action then the best
forward we can get by picking a here is
one and then the best reward we can get
by picking B here is 0.7 so to formalize
that a little bit you have a state s and
you're trying to estimate the value of
each action the value is basically the
expected reward that we get we get
taking that action in a sequence the
sequence model for example our state
would be the input and that previously
generated words the action will be the
next word to generate and then we want
to take the action that maximizes the
expected reward which would be something
like this so you'll notice here that
this Q value is 1 or at 0.7 it's not
really a probability so Q value based
reinforcement learning doesn't have to
have a probabilistic policy it can just
be a
it can just predict the value of the
next action image you someone that gives
you the best so how do we estimate value
functions one way to do so is tabular
tabular to you learning basically the
idea is that you have a finite number of
states and you can just remember all of
the states and then every time you every
time you do a rollout every time you
take a bunch of actions it will see the
final reward you update your Q value to
be a little bit closer to the actual
reward that you gots based on this so
it's like stochastic gradient descent a
little bit in that you're doing an
update but it's really actually just a
rolling average of all the rewards that
you've gotten given that you've taken
that action in that particular State
there are neural cue function
approximator x' so the reason why you
would want to do a Q function
approximation is because we in NLP we
never have a finite number of states we
have you know all the or we very rarely
have a finite number of states we have
all the sentences in English as our
input which means that we won't have a
state a single state that we can
remember things over so what we do
instead is we take in features of our
current States maybe all the words in
the input sequence we run them through a
neural network and we use that neural
network to predict the state the value
action value function seems like all my
references are from the 1990s this one
was this wouldn't was a paper that
played backgammon do people know
backgammon it's a it's another board
game like go and this was the first the
first paper that played backgammon at
the professional level apparently
to reduce the action space so you could
think of ways to approximate this this
would basically be it would be a search
function over all the actions you could
possibly do so if you think about let's
say we think about a scenario where
we're doing reinforcement learning to
recommend news articles for people to
read and what we want to do so this is
the actual application vision John Wayne
furred was doing in Microsoft they have
the Bing Search page and they want to
they have the Bing Search page and they
want to recommend articles for people
where your reward is basically whether
somebody clicked on an article or not so
there your action space is gigantic
right it's you know all the articles
that you have for that day and so you
need to have some sort of approximate
search function I believe I talked about
like locality sensitive hashing before
so you could think of a way where you
basically decrease your search space to
a reasonable number of things and then
within that reasonable number of things
you do a finer grained search I don't
know if that's actually what they did
for the news article recommendation
thing but that that's kind of the
default way of reducing really big
actions okay
another important thing in reinforcement
learning is exploration but versus
exploitation
so the idea is the problem with
something like you like value-based
reinforcement learning is remember we're
taking the arguments of our of our value
function so that means we're taking
we're taking the best value that we
think we can get given based on our
current ideas of our value function but
what if there's actually some option
down here that would be really good that
we just
explored yet so exploitation means
basically we'll take the best option and
get a reward exploration means that
we'll we'll explore a little bit more to
try to find rewards that maybe we
haven't discovered yet so you should
note that this is this problem of local
minima is less of a problem with policy
gradient methods because they're
sampling anyway so they always randomly
sample according to according to the
current policy um the most common way to
do this is every once in a while we just
randomly pick an action with a
probability Epsilon and this is called
the epsilon greedy strategy you a lot of
people have probably heard about this um
another thing that was really that's a
really interesting idea that I've found
recently but we invented in 1991
was the idea of intrinsic reward so the
idea here is that I think it's true for
all of the people in this room but you
kind of want to know new things like
knowing new things is kind of
interesting for people and so when the
idea behind this intrinsic reward is
whenever you see a state that is not
similar to a state that you've seen
before you kind of get a little bit of a
new little bit of a reward it's not
actually an explicit reward but you get
a reward for doing this and this method
was used the the second papers by deep
mind and they spend all their time
playing games in this particular game
that they were playing was was an Atari
game called Montezuma's Revenge in
Montezuma's Revenge it's really
difficult because you basically need to
take a hundred or a thousand correct
actions before you eventually get a
reward and the standard methods weren't
working very well at this but
this intrinsic reward basically allowed
it to continue exploring until it found
something that actually gave it a real
real okay so for the last part I'm going
to talk about examples of reinforcement
learning in NLP I saw some slides from a
year ago
that's a from a year ago that said my
slides used to say that nobody uses
reinforcement learning and NLP and it
was the case that almost nobody used
reinforcement learning in NLP
although there were a few examples but
now there's lots of new and exciting
examples one place where they have been
using reinforcement learning forever
though is dialogue dialogue has been
using reinforcement learning since maybe
10 10-15 years ago there's a good survey
of this by Steve Young at all on - in
um the standard tools here are the
standard tool that people used to use
for Markov decision processes which is
basically a way to choose your next
action in the principled way given a
limited limited history and now a lot of
people are using neural network models
these neural network models are using
our standard policy gradient policy
gradient and neural network backbone
that we use in other things these have
been used both for task based and
chatbot based dialogues so if you're
interested in dialogue you can look up a
lot of examples here um one of the
really really helpful things in dialogue
when they were doing reinforcement
learning for dialogue was user
simulators so the idea for the problem
with dialogue is that you actually need
to talk to people and if you give people
a really really bad dialogue agent they
won't want to talk to it so you have
this problem that you need data to train
your good dialogue system but you can't
convince anybody to talk to a bad
dialogue system so you have this chicken
and egg
the solution that people have used for a
long time is to create a user simulator
that just basically generates more data
for you and the user simulator it kind
of has an internal state so this is an
example from the paper from 2007 on this
so the idea is that the user is
searching for a is searching for a bar
that serves beer in the central area and
this is kind of given to the user
simulator at first then the dialog
system tries to the dialog system tries
to communicate with the user and then
the user basically generates these
dialogue acts that create a rule-based
dialogue generation system and then the
reinforcement learner the reinforcement
learner basically makes a bad utterance
okay a wine bar so the user asks for
beer the the system says okay a wine bar
and then the user says no beer please
and everytime you kind of know that the
user simulator is what the user
simulator is thinking so you can give a
reward to the agent um
this is a really interesting example of
synthetic data in natural language
processing so there's been a lot of good
advances in in like video games or image
processing where you generate lots of
synthetic data and that helps you solve
your problems so like you add noise to
evader or something like that there
hasn't been a lot of very good work in
this and I'll be although there's a
little bit but the user simulators are
one example where this has been really
genuinely useful um another interesting
thing that people have done is mapping
instructions to actions in spaces um
this is an old paper from I guess kind
of old from eight years ago this was
reinforcement learning for NLP before
reinforcement
for NLP was cool but it was a I think
this paper is brilliant and the idea is
that you train something you train a
agent to learn how to use Windows and
you train train it to learn how to use
Windows using an implicit reward it has
no explicit reward and the only reward
that it gets is you have this series of
instructions and you can match the
series of instructions with something
changing on the with something changing
on the like windows computer screen or
whatever so this is like a version of
implicit reward when you do something
and it seems to work properly you get an
implicit reward and then you also get a
reward if the text in the manual matches
to the text on the screen so if you do
something totally unrelated the text in
the manual won't match the text on the
screen but if you do something related
than a little bit I think this is I
think this won best paper at some
menifee conference and it definitely
should have uhm there is also a couple
papers recently on vision handling
visual instructions with neural networks
and you have Artie who's going to give
it a talk here at the colloquium very
soon is one of the co-authors on this
paper so I'm hoping he'll talk about
this so I don't need to talk about it
now another example that I've been kind
of hinting at is reinforcement learning
for making incremental decisions in
machine translation so there are the
reinforcement learning methods to kind
of optimize the Blue Square and machine
translation a another example that I
like because I wrote a paper on this is
is deciding when to translate before you
get to the end of the sentence so let's
say you have a an earbud microphone or
something like that that you can put in
your ear and it will translate for you
that's great if it has great translation
accuracy but if it has to wait until the
end of the Center
before it starts translating you can
think my sentences here are taking 30 or
40 seconds before I finish talking and
if you had to wait until I finish
talking before you heard my translation
then I probably would be already be
switching slides to the next slide and
you'd be kind of lost so the idea behind
this is that um we can read a part of
the sentence then we can start
translating once we've read part of the
sentence and we use a reinforcement
learning method to to basically decide
when to start translating so here the
example the blue is when you wait for
more input and the red is when you've
heard enough input and you know you can
start translating so you can see it
waits until last night we served mr. X
the translation is last night we served
mr. X a beer and so once it's gotten up
to the point beer it can do last night
we served and then I have a lot of beer
examples today I don't know another
interesting one recently is are all for
information retrieval so the idea or
information retrieval or the first ones
actually
oh sorry good yeah how do you compute
the baseline so the baseline here at the
end we will be getting a reward for this
particular sentence or according to its
blue score so always you're calculating
the baseline based on the decoder state
or based on whatever information you
have at that time so here you can just
calculate the baseline based on the
decoder state or the encoder state when
you make a decision it's not it's
actually not any more complicated than
the standard
oh okay so in this case your baseline
will be bad one important thing to
always set the baseline is only
necessary at training times so you could
theoretically calculate the baseline
using all the information in the
sentence because a training time you
know little circles so it's not it's not
actually a big problem any other
questions about the ones okay so the
next one is this is a kind of clever
application of reinforcement learning to
information extraction so the idea is
basically you have a news article and
they're asking you to summarize the
information in the news article like who
is the shooter from this news article
and how many people were killed in this
extraction task but let's say you need
to do this and in this particular news
article it's a couple in four children
this is this is quite difficult for a
natural language information extraction
thing to get six so the idea is
basically you have an agent that reads
this article and after it's finished
reading the article you ask it a
question and it says do I know the
answer to this question or not and if it
knows the answer if it's confidence in
the answer it will answer the question
immediately if not it will perform web
search to find other articles that
answer it in a more straightforward way
so basically your actions are tried to
answer or perform a web search to get
more evidence I thought this was a
really cool idea I don't know if it's
super practical but uh because web
searching sounds it sounds pretty
difficult but it worked very well for
them in
there's also ones for information
retrieval itself that does query
reformulation so if you put a query in
it it asks you to reformulate your query
based on its certainty in another
example is course to find question
answering so the idea here is that you
have a very long document and based on
this document you want to first pair
down sentences before reading each
sentence in depth so the idea is when
we're looking for an answer in a
document we don't read the whole
document super carefully what we do
first is we kind of do a brief search
over the document for places that look
relevant then we read those relevant
places carefully so the idea here is
that we have a basically a sentence
selector that makes a latent selection
of various sentences to read to create a
summary and then you have an answer
general generator that that generates
based on this summary and this is also
drain using reinforcement and this is
this is a final one that was kind of
interesting so this is the one that is
putting us in danger of all losing our
jobs so the idea is we want to learn the
structure of the neural network that
we're using to to train our models so
basically we have the LS TM which is a
kind of complicated function so we have
the we have a learner that just tries
new designs for the LS TM and every time
it tries a new design for the Alice TM
it it runs a language model trains its
language model and and gets a reward
based on its language model performance
and then you use reinforcement learning
to basically update its design function
and then it designs a new neural network
and if the new neural network is better
than the other one it gets it gets a
reward if your new neural network is
it gets gets a negative reward and
eventually this is the knurl the
recurrent neural network structure and
discovered that did a bit better than
the STM after using 250,000 GPU hours or
something like that so if you use
250,000 GPU hours actually we're not in
danger of losing our job because that's
a lot more expensive than my salary so
we're still safe don't worry okay that
is that's the end of the class this time
right are there any final questions okay
I'll finish up thank you and I'll think
about what to do about